now Israel has reduced large parts of
Gaza to rubble and there are serious
questions about where people from Rafa
will be evacuated to and what Israel's
plan is most areas are uninhabitable
recent satellite footage shows extensive
damage to the infrastructure in the
strip since the start of Israel's war
79,000 housing units are completely
destroyed and another 290,000 structures
have been damaged only six out of 36
hospitals are still functioning in Gaza
under difficult conditions making it
hard for Palestinians to access basic
healthare well in the north of Gaza
people are living in Desperate
conditions they're running out of food
and basic necessities alas Al Sharif
reports from
Gaza people are getting hungry in Gaza
as Food Supplies run short as conditions
grow worse many are struggling to
survive we are experiencing great
suffering our house was bombed we live
in the shelters we are 15 people living
in tents we're drenched in rain and
sewage we have no food whatsoever the
Children Cry day and night because they
are
hungry there's nothing except Shing and
bombardment and hunger my children cry
because they are hungry we did not
receive any humanitarian Aid the
children in Gaza don't get any
humanitarian
a the children of North Gaza are dying
of hunger there is no milk for them
there is no sugar for them there is no
rice for them there is no flour for them
hunger is killing us I ate only little
pieces of bread today we are reduced to
eating
grass the water is polluted this is not
fair this is Injustice either kill us
all or give us a proper chance to
live the suffering increases here in
North Gaza as Israeli forces prevent
entry of basic necessities obtaining
food has become a dream for hundreds of
thousands of
families okay well let's speak to Nadia
Hardman who is a researcher in the
refugee and migrants rights division of
Human Rights Watch many thanks for
joining us so we are on the verge of
another defining moment in this conflict
one Benjamin Netanyahu says will assure
total Victory but at the cost of 1.4
million civilians who are crammed into
that tiny corner of Gaza Rafa what are
your fears of this significant
moment um I mean we are deeply alarmed
Disturbed that Netanyahu is planning to
evacuate um this area in Rafa um as you
consistently remind you reminded your
viewers this is an area where the
majority of gaza's population is
Sheltering including over 1.7 million
displaced Palestinians the conditions
are desperate um people are struggling
to survive and overcrowded um flimsy
tents and apartment buildings and many
have been displaced multiple times I've
spoken to people who've been displaced
up to 10 times um when I ask them about
their fears going forward they are
desperately uh fearful of a potential
ground Invasion and the one question
they continue to ask me is where do we
go um they have fled from areas that
were once considered safe and I think it
Bears reminding that the majority of the
Gaza Strip is under evacuation orders
Israel promised to provide safe passage
must be analyzed in light of the fact
that it has consistently failed to do
this throughout the conflict I've spoken
to people who've been targeted in their
homes um before they received warnings
to flee only to go to areas which were
declared safe um and then that change
from one day to the next uh this
evacuation would be unlawful if it is
ordered well I mean you clearly state
that this would be an unlawful move for
Netanyahu nevertheless he has appeared
on two at least two US networks trying
to justify this assault on Rafa saying
that he would guarantee the movement of
civilians North to allow Israeli forces
to move on the city firstly how would
that suggestion work in practice given
the level of Destruction in areas that
people are being told to go
to exactly I mean large parts of haa
simply been reduced to Rubble um the
logistic
um idea of of transferring so many
people um to so-called safe areas as I
said before nowhere is considered safe
is just unimaginable um I mean this this
evacuation order could spell
catastrophic consequences and we cannot
stress enough that we may see
unprecedented levels of killings um even
for this conflict uh it may spell
Bloodshed just because people cannot
access anywhere that is safe and other
areas are
continuously um experiencing airri air
stri and bombardments and that's not to
mention the humanitarian situation we
may see blocking of Aid how is Aid meant
to be coordinated under such a a massive
displacement
crisis I wanted to talk about something
else that um Palestinians have been
drawing the world's attention to in
recent weeks and these are uh apparent
evidence of execution style killings
particularly in the north of Gaza there
have been reports of another Mass grave
um found um signs of extrajudicial
killings taking place there of course
one day this war will be over but what
do these discoveries say about the kind
of war waged in Gaza to
date I mean it is a a brutal conflict
and um these extrajudicial killings must
be investigated as war crimes um we
continue to document the the most
horrifying um situations and I think
this this proves again um that we must
see accountability for uh such um
terrible terrible things when it comes
precisely to accountability the ruling
at the icj the international court of
justice the world's top Court urging
Israel to cease acts of possible
genocide resolution after resolution has
been broken at the uh un Security
Council how do we make sure that
eventually accountability is something
that we see that Justice is
seen I mean I think the one thing we can
just continue to remind the
International Community to use their
leverage to prevent atrocities from
happening um I mean what I said before
that this will be unlawful this may
amount to the war crime of force
displacement and you know the this uh
this conflict has been live streamed
into people's rooms um International
leaders can see exactly what is going on
and it must use all its power especially
uh in in light of this impending
disaster in Rafa um to to pressure
Israel to reverse this
course IIA Hardman researcher in the
refugee immigrants rights division of
Human Rights Watch so many thanks for
joining us on
Al thank you very much